#summary How the program mutates

= genimagef's Mutation Scheme =
This mutation function is made up of four basic sections, and each of these four sections has four actions. Every action has an equal weight except for special cases (where noted).

*Special Case:* If the genome has no chomosomes, then it forces the mutation 'Insert Chomosome'.

== Chomosome Actions ==
These are actions that apply to chromosomes within the genome.

*Special Case:* If the genome has 100 chromosomes, it will *not* 'insert chromosome'.  This is effectively the maximum number of chromosomes.
=== Insert Chromosome ===
Inserts a chromosome with no points at a random index.  This chromosome has a random color and opacity.
=== Remove Chromosome ===
Removes a chromosome from a randomly chosen index.
=== Switch Chromosomes ===
Choses two random chromosomes and switches them in place.
=== Shuffle Chromosome ===
Shuffle the order of all chromosomes.
=== Increment Chromosome ===
Choose a chromosome at random and move it up the list.
=== Decrement Chromosome ===
Choose a chromosome at random and move it down the list.
== Point Actions ==
These actions affect the size, shape, and location of the chromosomes' phenotype.  The phenotype may be polygons, triangles, ellipses, circles, rectangles, diamonds, etc...
=== Insert Point ===
This randomly inserts a point.  For polygons, this inserts a point randomly into its list of points.  For ellipses and other phenotypes with a fixed number of points, this overwrites a randomly chosen with a new randomly placed point.
=== Remove Point ===
This randomly removes a point.  For polygons this removes a randomly selected point in the list of points.  For ellipses and other phenotypes with a fixed number of points, this overwrites a randomly chosen point with a new randomly placed point.
=== Switch Points ===
Chooses two points and randomly switches them in place.
=== Shuffle Points ===
Shuffle the order of all points in place.
=== Move Point ===
Chooses a point at random and moves it to a randomly chosen location.  This can be anywhere on the image (or even slightly off of it).
=== Shift Point ===
Chooses a point at random and moves it by a randomly selected amount.  This amount is in general smaller than the image to make this a much more gradual move than 'Move Point'.
== Opacity Actions ==
== Color Actions ==


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages